---
title: ""
layout: page
feature_image: "https://raw.githubusercontent.com/morse-ws/morse-ws.github.io/master/images/kitchen.jpg"
feature_text: &#124;
  ## The 7th International Workshop on Model-driven Robot Software Engineering
---

# Important Dates

tba.

# Call for Papers

Robots are an indispensable part of modern production facilities. In the future, robots will also become more common in daily life. Currently, however, there is a lack of standardization w. r. t. hardware/software platforms for robots, leading to a vast landscape of isolated, incompatible, task-specific and, thus, non-reusable solutions. Consequently, there is a need for new engineering methodologies for the design, implementation and execution of software for robotic platforms.

Model-Driven Robot Software Engineering (MORSE) is a promising research field combining Software Engineering and Robotics. Its objectives are to introduce model-driven development methodologies for the development of robot software. At the same time, formal methods should be transferred to robotics because "robot apps" must be certified and verified. MORSE attempts to fill this gap. 

## Topics of Interest

Submissions are encouraged, but not limited, in the following topics:

### Robotic Platforms: MDA, Models, Processes and Tools
  - Hardware/Software Abstractions &#124; Architectures &#124; Metamodels
  - Code- and Application-Reuse &#124; Managed Redundancy &#124; Deployment
  - Variability in Robotic Systems &#124; Self-Adaptive Systems &#124; Evolution
  - Programming Languages &#124; Paradigms &#124; Models &#124; DSLs 
### Models for and Modelling in Robotics
  - Sensors and Actuators &#124; Sensor Integration
  - Computer Vision and Image Processing &#124; Recognition and Tracking
  - Knowledge Representation and Reasoning &#124; Context Models
  - Ontologies and Conceptual Modeling
  - Localization, Mapping and Navigation
  - Autonomous Robots &#124; Robot Learning and Artificial Intelligence 
### Robot Ecosystems and Total Cost of Ownership
  - Product-Line Development &#124; Robot Apps
  - End-User Customization &#124; Multi-Tenancy 
### Model-Driven Quality Assurance of Robotic Systems
  - Verification &#124; Validation &#124; Testing &#124; Simulation &#124; Debugging &#124; Profiling
  - Handling Emergent Behavior and Uncertainty &#124; Software Qualities 
### Multi-Robot Systems
  - Cooperative Perception &#124; Planning &#124; Task Allocation &#124; Coordination
  - Robot Swarms &#124; Multi-Agent Robotic Systems 
  
## Submission

The workshop participants will be selected based on their experience and ideas related to this maturing field. You are invited to apply for attendance by sending:

* a full paper (10 pages) on original research, lessons learned from realizing an approach or experiences on transferring a research prototype into practice,
* a position paper (6 pages) covering a well-argued vision or position,
* a demo paper (2 pages) describing a demonstration to be shown at the workshop, or
* an artifact paper (2 pages) together with the artifact, which is of use to the community (e.g., a reusable case study or a challenging example) 

All papers must conform to the IEEE formatting guidelines, which can be found at: https://www.ieee.org/conferences/publishing/templates.html. Artifacts will be published in ReMoDD, the repository for model-driven development (http://www.remodd.org). At least three PC members will review each submission. The authors will be notified about acceptance before the MODELS 2019 early registration deadline.

You can submit your papers via EasyChair.

## Publication

All papers will be published as IEEE proceedings.

## Organizers

- [Sebastian Götz](http://st.inf.tu-dresden.de/sgoetz/) (main contact), Technische Universität Dresden, Germany
- [Simos Gerasimou](http://www-users.cs.york.ac.uk/simos/), University of York, UK
- [Sebastian Wrede](https://www.cor-lab.de/swrede), Universität Bielefeld, Germany
- [Andreas Wortmann](https://www.se-rwth.de/staff/wortmann/), RWTH Aachen University, Germany

## Program Committee

- Cristina Vicente-Chicote, Universidad de Extremadura, Spain
- Matteo Morelli, CEA LIST, France
- Sven Schneider, Hochschule Bonn-Rhein-Sieg, Germany
- Carlos Hernández Corbato, Delft University of Technology, Netherlands
- Kerstin Eder, University of Bristol, UK
- Nico Hochgeschwender, German Aerospace Center (DLR), Germany
- Ivano Malavolta, Vrije Universiteit Amsterdam, Netherlands
- Davide Di Ruscio, Università degli Studi dell'Aquila, Italy
- Diana Goehringer, Ruhr-University Bochum, Germany
- Federico Ciccozzi, Mälardalen University, Sweden 

# Program

tba.
